Also, I'd like to remind everyone
that we can get a prediction for
Y by taking beta not hat
plus beta nought hat and
multiplying it by the X
that we want to predict at.
Now if we plug in the observed X's,
then we get the fitted values.
The ones who were trying to make as close
as possible to the observed data, but
that doesn't mean that we can only
predict at the fitted values.
We can predict at any value of X,
we'd like to plug into the equation.
However, we're going to have more
reasonable predictions if the value of
x that we plugin is in the cloud of data
that we're, we used to build the model.
Later on,
we'll also talk about how to account for
that kind of uncertainty
with prediction intervals.
But for the time being, let's just
talk about how we get a prediction.
And in the next couple slides, we'll
go through an example of interpreting
the intercept, interpreting the slope and
generating predictions from a specific
regression model and setting.
All right.
Let's go through some code now
to interpret our regression
coefficients and
show you running of the regression
coefficient sort of in real time.
The dataset is the diamond
dataset from the UsingR package.
The data is diamond prices in Singapore
dollars and diamond weight in carats,
which is a standard
measure of diamond mass.
To get the data,
you need to start out by using
library UsingR to get
the UsingR package and
data diamond and then we want,
I want to do ggplot2,
because I'm going to do a ggplot first.
So here,
let me go through my ggplot commands.
So, I would like to assign to the variable
g my ggplot, the dataset is diamond.
My aesthetic has the horizontal
axis variable as carat and
the y-axis variable as price.
I'd like to label, I'd like to get
in the practice of labeling my axes,
so my plot, I add a layer where
the xlab isM ass and carats.
And where the y label, ylab is pr,
price in Singapore dollars.
So let me run those, [SOUND] let me
run those lines and then I'd like to
add the points, I'd like to add
the points of the black background and
then a,
a light alpha blending color on top and
then it quite easy to
add the regression line.
So, I'm going to add a layer that
is geom_smooth and method equals,
method equals lm will
add the regression line.
And if you omit any arguments,
it's just going to assume the regression
line with y's the outcome and
x is the predictor and that I want my
regression line color to be black.
So let me run that line and
then call my plot.
[SOUND] There's my plot,
you can see on my x-axis,
I have mass, on my y-axis I have price.
And now what I'm plotting is the fitted
line, the line that minimizes the sum
of the squared vertical distances
between these points and the lines.
Now let's actually go through and
get our fitted line.
Just to remind us, the function lm
is r is linear model procedure,
so it includes regression
as a special case.
Y on the left-hand side of our
tilde is the outcome price,
then tilde, think of that as sort
of the equal sign in the model.
Our x variable carat.
By default, lm includes an intercept.
So, if you don't want an intercept, you
have to explicitly force it in the model.
Then the comma,
we want the dataset that we're
looking at to be the diamond dataset.
So, in other words,
we have to give it the data frame.
Otherwise, it looks in the regular r
environment for variables in the model and
we're going to assign that to,
to the variable named fit.
So let's see what that output
looks like after we run it.
So there I've run the model and
now I'm going to type fit just
to see what it prints out.
It basically just prints out
the coefficients beta nought and beta one.
I would note that you can get
a much more detailed printout
by doing summary of the outputted
variable from the l,
lm fit and
you get this more elaborate printout.
And we're going to go through and detail
all of the numbers on this printout,
you'll be able to interpret
everything on this
printout at some point after the class.
But for the time being,
lets just talk about the coefficients.
If you just want to grab the coefficients
as a vector, lets do coef fit and
then we get the intercept and labels it as
Intercept and the regression variable for
the carat, the slope for
the carat regression variable.
So let's look at this 3,721 variable and
try to interpret it.
It's saying that we have
an expected 3,721 Singapore dollar
increase in price for every carat
increase in mass of the diamond.
The intercept, negative 259 is
the expected price of a 0 carat diamond.
So not very interested, interesting,
because we're not interested
in zero carat diamonds.
Now let's mean center our x variable, so
that the intercept is on
a more interpretable scale.
The first thing I'd like to do is
assign it to a different variable,
fit2 instead of fit, because I don't
want to overwrite the original fit.
Lm is again, my linear model procedure.
My outcome stays the same and
now I want to main center my
predictor variable, carat.
So carat minus mean carat.
If you want to do arithmetic operations
inside equation statements in lm,
you actually have to surround
them by this I function and
then we still want our dataset
to be the diamond dataset.
So let's run that code.
[NOISE] So, I've run fit2 [NOISE] and
there are my new coefficients.
Notice of course,
the slope stays the same,
3,721, but
my intercept has changed to 500.
So $500, Singapore dollars is the expected
price of the average sized diamond.
In this case,
the average diamond is about 0.2 carats.
A one carat increase is
actually kind of big.
What about changing the units
to one-tenth of a carat?
We can do this just by dividing
the coefficient by ten.
So we know that we would expect to
see a $372 increase in price for
every one-tenth of a carat
increase in the mass of a diamond.
But let's actually show in
r how this works, as well.
Here I am, now assigning to the ver,
to the variable fit3.
The linear model fit,
where now instead of putting in carat,
I'm putting in carat times 10.
So the units of this new
variable is one-tenth of a carat.
The data is of course,
still the diamond dataset.
So let me run that and
then let me find the coefficient.
And you get, of course,
that it is now 372 rather than 3,721.
So, imagine if someone came to you
with three new diamonds that they had.
0.16 carats, 0.27 carats and 0.35 carats,
so here they are right here and
let me assign those.
And they wanted to know what you
would estimate the price would be.
Well, you could do it manually by grabbing
the two coefficients in multiplying
the intercept or adding the intercept
plus the slope times these new values.
Let's do that.
And so you would predict 336, 745 and
$1,006 for these three diamonds,
respectively based on your
fitted linear regression model.
Which by the way, from the scatter
plot seems to fit pretty well.
Often, you don't want to do even that much
coding, you want to more general method,
especially when you get lots
of regression variables.
So there's this general method called
predict that will take the output from
several different kinds of model fits.
Linear models are one example, but predict
is a generic function, you know, or, and
it applies to several
different prediction models.
So we predict from
the output of our lm fit and
then you need to give it some
new data to predict that.
So new data is a data.frame that has the
new values of x for the carat variable.
Then when we do that, what you'll see is
of course, it gives you the same answer.
The, now in a way that scales up
when we have lots of regressors
in much more complicated settings.
So you generally, want to predict
using the predict function.
If you omit this new data statement,
if you just do predict fit,
I'll show it to you.
[SOUND] It predicts at
the observed x values,
so it gives you the y hat values.
If you want it at new x values, you
have to give it this new data argument.
I just wanted to briefly illustrate
what the prediction was accomplishing.
Here's our observe data points in blue.
The fitted values when we do the predict
command, the fitted values in red all of
the observed x values and their
associated fitted points on the line.
These are if we were to draw vertical
lines from the observed data points on to
the fitted line,
they would occur on these red points.
When we predicted a new value of x,
what we're doing is we're finding
a point along this horizontal axis.
That here, I'm giving the three values
that we want, 0.16, 0.27 and 0.34.
We're drawing a line up to
the fitted regression line and
then over to dollars and
those are our predicted dollar amounts.